The title of this series of four talks is Seek, Peace, and Persuad, and it's based on 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 11.
Let's read that together.
1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 11.
Let him turn away from what is bad and do what is good.
Let him seek peace and pursue it.
Yes, we have to pursue peace and pursuit requires effort.
Have you ever had to chase a piece of paper that was in your hands and got blown away by the wind?
And just when you get to it, the wind blows it away again and again.
It can really take quite some effort to retrieve and get that paper back in your hands.
Just standing there and watching the paper blow further and further away is not going to get it back.
Well, peace can be a lot like that paper.
At some point, it can get blown away and we have to then chase or pursue it to get that piece back again.
This series of talks will help us to pursue peace in four ways.
By not quickly taking offense, by apologizing, by forgiving freely, and by using our gift of speech wisely.
Let's consider our first way to pursue peace.
Avoid quickly taking offense.
Now, because we are imperfect, we might misjudge others and quickly take offense.
Notice that we say, quickly take offense. That's an important word.
We need to avoid jumping to conclusions quickly before we actually have the facts.
Even faithful men like Jesus apostles have taken offense too quickly.
You may recall the time that Jesus and His apostles were looking for lodging in a Samaritan village.
Now, the Samaritans in that village rudely denied them lodging.
At Luke 9 verses 54 through 56, the apostles James and John say to Jesus,
Lord, do you want us to call fire down from heaven and annihilate them?
But Jesus rebukes them for their rash and rather violent suggestion.
Think of the serious consequences had Jesus yielded to the violent temper of James and John.
The Samaritans could have become prejudiced against the kingdom message.
Instead, Jesus pursues a peaceful solution. The account says they simply went to a different village.
Now, does this mean we're saying I can never take offense?
No, you may have a legitimate cause for complaint.
The key point is that we should not quickly draw conclusions before we hear all the facts.
Proverbs chapter 18 and verse 13 says,
When anyone replies to a matter before he hears the facts, it is foolish and humiliating.
In the following dramatization, know what helps one sister to overlook an offense.
And I expected more from you.
Hey Lee, what are you talking about? Got a pin.
About my posts.
Are you that lonely?
You've got nothing better to do.
Hey Lee.
Wait, please.
I don't know what's happening.
Did you talk to Emily about my posts?
Yes, we do.
Do you want to sit about me?
No, why would I look up to you?
You're supposed to be the mature one and you're just like Emily, busy running your mind.
Hey Lee.
Look, I can see you're upset.
But trust me, this is a huge misunderstanding.
I love you.
I would never, ever say anything behind your back.
So please calm down.
Sometimes I just feel so alone.
Between Nana and work.
And then knowing all of you were talking about me.
I promise, that's not what happened.
You're just really tired and overwhelmed.
So why don't we just slow things down, little?
You know, meetings always make me feel better.
Even on my worst days.
Why don't we go inside?
Clean up a little, enjoy the program together.
Then afterwards, we can all talk.
I promise, it'll be okay.
Hey Lee really was upset.
She'd already concluded that she was being gossiped about by everyone.
If we find ourselves like Hey Lee feeling offended, how can we avoid quickly taking offense?
Well, we must stop and think.
Let's read Ecclesiastes chapter 7 and verse 9 for some very good advice in these situations.
Ecclesiastes chapter 7 and verse 9.
Do not be quick to take offense.
For the taking of offense lodges in the bosom of fools.
Like Celia said in the parking lot to Hey Lee, please calm down.
So in those situations, we need to think about what you know and just as importantly what you don't know.
Now, you know what you were told happened, but what was really said?
In the video, Hey Lee quickly believed what she was told.
She did not even ask Celia what she really said.
Or you may know what was said, but do you know what was really meant by it?
Hey Lee asked, did you talk about my posts?
And Celia said yes.
And immediately, Hey Lee assumed the worst.
Or perhaps we misjudged the person who heard us.
Hey Lee misjudged Celia on the spot by saying, you're just as bad as Emily.
She had not even heard from Celia yet.
Hey Lee said to Celia, she was the mature one, the one she looked up to.
And yet she was quick to believe the worst about her.
Hey Lee had not stopped and really thought about what she was thinking and saying.
Perhaps she was having a hard day.
Well, Celia really set a fine example for us.
Even though Hey Lee spoke harshly to her,
Celia was calm and listened to Hey Lee.
As Hey Lee explained how she was feeling lonely, dealing and caring for her grandmother,
you can see the love and concern that Celia had for Hey Lee.
Even though just moments before, she had spoken really harshly to her.
Well, besides taking time to think things through,
we also need to remember that it is Jehovah's opinion of us that matters the most.
Now, that's an important point, especially when we deal with misunderstandings or false accusations.
Think about it.
Jehovah is an eyewitness to everything.
Dilustrate that I want you to imagine.
You had a traffic accident.
Now, you were just sitting at the stop sign,
but another car ran straight into you.
The police come and the person that ran into you says that you ran into them.
And the police believed them.
You take the matter to court.
The judge listens, as the other person says, that you ran into them.
However, before you can say anything, the judge says,
no, that is not what happened.
I was there walking on the sidewalk across the street that day,
and I saw the whole thing.
Well, it's extremely unlikely that you can go to court and expect the judge for your case to have been an eyewitness.
This does illustrate, though, the peace of mind that we can have knowing that Jehovah is an eyewitness to all that happens.
So when falsely accused, or we have a misunderstanding that we cannot seem to clear up,
it is of great comfort for us to know that Jehovah was there that day and saw the whole thing.
We don't need to take offense at every negative thing that is said or done around us.
Or feel we have to defend ourselves as right on every occasion.
We would surely wear out emotionally and probably not have very many friends.
We should be willing to overlook minor transgressions.
Let's look at Proverbs 19 and verse 11.
Proverbs 19 and verse 11.
What can help us?
Insight of a man certainly slows down his anger, and it is beauty on his part to overlook an offense.
So can you overlook an offense?
As the Proverbs said, that is beauty on our part.
If not, and you have a serious cause for complaint, handle matters according to Jehovah's direction,
show insight, slow down any anger, think carefully and listen patiently
to make sure you clearly have all the facts before you become offended or take action.
Remember that piece of paper that you had in your hands and got blown away by the wind?
What if it was a hundred dollar bill?
Well, you would make every effort to pursue it and get it back because it's valuable.
Our piece with our brothers is far more valuable than paper money.
When our piece with our brothers or sisters is blown away by misunderstandings, mistakes, or sin,
then you should pursue peace, try hard to get it back.
Yes, we glorify God and promote peace when we avoid quickly taking offense.
Brother Ralph Walls, a helper to the Personnel Committee, will now present the next talk of this symposium,
seek peace and pursue it by apologizing.